---
Time-stamp: <2013-07-29 21:09:58 ()>
layout: default
title: "Matt Renaud"
---

# A Brief Introduction

Hey there! My name is Matt Renaud, I'm a fourth year computer science
student at the University of Windsor and you can find me most places
online going by the name mrenaud92 (since mrenaud is taken almost
everywhere, except for domain names apparently, go figure). A lot of
my friends call me a nerd but I much prefer going by the term
*knowledge enthusiast*. I really enjoy learning, regardless of what
subject, but my main area of interest is, as you can guess from my
major, Computer Science. I will be graduating at the end of next year
and I have no clue whether I want to do graduate work or work full
time, good thing I still have another year to decide!

I was first introduced to Computer Science (well, just Linux actually)
around 4 years ago by my uncle Roland and was instantly intrigued when
I saw him banging away at the terminal and stuff was happening! It
turns out that I was somewhat technology sheltered up until that
point.

I am currently working as a software engineering intern at IBM and
I've had a chance to work on some really cool projects.  I'm really
enjoying my job so it's going to be a little bittersweet when I head
back to school, but I really enjoy school so I'm also kinda looking
forward to it. I eventually want to do a start-up (who doesn't?), but
like most people, I have not found an idea I deem *good enough* to
actually pursue veraciously.

# Interests

## Tech/CS Related

When it comes to technology, the list of interests that I have is
quite long, and unfortunately, there isn't enough time in the day to
explore all of them when you take into account work, school, and all
the other things that take up time. So, I'll just put a small list
here:

- <span class="heading">Artificial Intelligence</span>

  More specifically multi-agent planning, although I haven't had much
  time to explore this. I think that what
  [Anki Drive](http://anki.com/) is doing is really awesome. I looked
  at their job posting... I have a lot of work to do!

- <span class="heading">Programming Languages</span>

  I have always been interested in the way that programming languages
  are designed, and how that design effects how you approach solving a
  problem in that language.  In particular, I enjoy writing in C++ but
  I've always had a *thing* for functional languages like Haskell and
  CommonLisp (but I'll get to that in a blog entry sometime).

- <span class="heading">Distributed Computing</span>

  For the last year or so, I've become more and more interested in
  parallel processing and distributed computing. I started out last
  year by writing multi-threaded data structure and algorithms in
  C++ using the new threading library in C++11. I didn't have more
  than one computer so I was somewhat limited in what I could do
  with regards to distributing work across a network.

  During the course of my internship at IBM, I had the opportunity to
  write software that would be running across hundreds of nodes in
  parallel, opering on files stored on a distributed filesystem. My
  time working on the project really gave me a lot of insight and
  experience into the advantages, difficulties, and drawbacks of the
  design of distributed systems.

## Non-technology Related

I absolutely love being outside whenever I can, which as you can
imagine, clashes epically with my career choice as a computer
scientist (although not in all cases).

- <span class="heading">Exercise</span>

  I pick things up and put them down. Not really, but that is part of
  what I do. I do like to go to the gym, I also enjoy interval
  training, boot camps, and kickboxing. Regurlarly exercising really
  keeps me sane, especially throughout the school year when I have a
  lot of work to do.

  If it's nice and I'm not working or studying, I'm likely to be
  outside going for a walk, a run, a bike ride, or just relaxing in
  the radiation of Sol.


- <span class="heading">Reading</span>

  I never used to, but recently I have gotten in the (good) habbit of
  reading more books. I have noticed, when reading books with
  not-so-common/advanced english in them, that my reading skills are
  not quite as good as I would like them to be, so hopefully over the
  coming years that will improve.

  I finished reading through GÃ¶del, Escher, Bach: an Eternal Golden
  Braid for the first time this (2013) summer, and *wow*, was that an
  absolutely incredible book. I took a little bit of time to reflect
  on what I had learned and discovered through my mental journey, then
  went back to the first chapter and started again. I don't know if I
  will even encounter a book that has changed the way that I think as
  much as GEB.


# About This Site

This site is hosted on GitHub pages and powered by Jekyll. See the
credits page for more information.
